[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm Robert Grant,
and this is Code X.
[THEME MUSIC]
In the last episode, we talked
about the pyramids of perception
and the role of Metatron's cube
in our perception of reality.
We realized that
what we experience
is not actually
what we perceive,
but rather what we
believed we perceived.
[INTRIGUING MUSIC]
In this episode, we're going
to learn the relationship
between music and geometry.
It's been said that geometry
is the music we experience
with our eyes, and likewise,
music is therefore the geometry
that we experience
with our ears.
But what is that
relationship and why
is it important to our
experience here in this matrix
of mind simulation?
And what does the framework
of Metatron's cube
have anything to do with
that experiential awareness?
What we find is that our
emotional states are directly
derived by our input stimulus.
The input stimulus is based
on a mathematical ratio
that can be depicted in the form
of a cross section of a pyramid.
And if you wanted to
leave that information
to future generations to
realize at the right time,
you could depict
it in living stone
and call it the Giza Plateau.
Metatron's cube is the
foundational architectural
design of the
entire Giza Plateau.
Now, the great pyramid is unique
because it has, in its pyramid
of perception, a slope angle
that is not found anywhere else.
This slope angle happens to
be precisely 51.8539 degrees,
as measured by explorer and
archeologist Flinders Petrie.
So if we look at that
angle in isolation,
we don't even know
necessarily what it means,
why it's significant at all.
And in fact, few have
ever even analyzed
why 51.8539 degrees was used.
Well, in order to
understand this,
we have to do a little
bit more research.
In fact, we need to start
to learn the relationship
between music and geometry.
So if we looked at it from
a brain anatomy perspective,
the left temporal lobe,
if you're right-handed,
is the seat of
rational thought, and
in particular mathematical
rational thought.
It's the site of our
brains that tell us, no.
It's the side that says,
hey, that's dangerous.
Don't jump off of that cliff.
But the other side of our
brain, the right temporal lobe,
is the seat of music.
At the center between these
two hemispheres of our brain
is something called
the corpus callosum.
And in that center point
we find the pituitary gland
and of course, the
pineal gland behind it.
Now, when we start to see
where the seat of geometry is,
we recognize that it
is in that place that
is called the cave of Brahma,
and adjacent to that place,
that we process geometric form.
So then we could say that the
left brain, the mathematics,
the rational thought and
ratio relationships of number,
inform the right brain,
right temporal lobe of music,
and in between, the nexus
point of those two sides
and hemispheres of the brain
experience is geometry.
With this thought
in mind, let's dive
more deeply to understand
how music relates
to geometry very directly.
If we start off with a
scale, and in this case,
we're going to use 432 hertz,
each of the relationships
that are coming
off of this would
start from what is referred
to as the diminished fifth.
The diminished fifth is known
as the square root of two, which
is equal to a ratio of 1.4142.
Then we have the
augmented fourth.
And the augmented
fourth in music theory
is the same square root of two.
Now we can go beyond this to
look at the perfect fourth.
The perfect fourth is
defined as a ratio of 4/3.
It has an inverted
relationship, so that
becomes the perfect fifth.
The next note that we
can derive from this
is called the major third.
The major third
has a ratio of 5/4,
and its opposite
becomes the minor sixth.
Now, from this
point forward, all
of the other
intervals that appear
show up as major or
minor relationships.
So that means that the next
one would be the minor third,
and then that would make
this the major sixth.
Then we have the major
second, and then its pair
must be the minor seventh.
And then the minor
second, and its pairing
would be the major seventh.
The octave doubles, so
that becomes the eighth.
The great pyramid, Khufu, embeds
within its architectural design
2/1 and 1/1, as I just showed.
So 51.8539 degrees is
giving us this relationship
to the unison and the
octave, and it's also
giving us the relationship
to the augmented fourth
and the diminished fifth.
So the great pyramid represents
already four, one, two, three,
four, of the musical intervals
that define our musical note
system in a scale.
And that relationship forms
exactly the 51.8539 degree
angle.
Now, one would
expect, if there's
a relationship that maybe
we could see a pattern here.
Now, the next pyramid, Khafre,
is exactly 4/3 relationship.
The height of Khafre
pyramid is 144 meters,
and it's one half
base is 108 meters,
which is exactly a
4/3 relationship.
This is why the measured
value is 53.13 degrees.
So we have the perfect
fourth and the perfect fifth,
which must be 53.13 degrees.
Then we get to the major third,
which is Menkaure pyramid.
And Menkaure is a
5/4 relationship,
which gives us a
51.34 degree angle.
And then that informs the
minor sixth, which is 8/5,
and that is also 51.34 degrees.
So wait.
Of the 13 musical intervals, the
Giza Plateau in three pyramids
has already defined eight of
the 13 intervals to perfection.
The music of the Giza Plateau
is evident in its slope angles.
What it is forming
is a unison chord.
You can think of that as da.
Then the major third,
which would be da.
The perfect fifth, da.
Then the doubled octave, da.
[HUMMING]
The A major chord
in 432 hertz is
the sound of the Giza Plateau.
The diminished fifth is
representing the duality
that separates
music into what we
would call light and darkness.
What we are looking
at and experiencing
when we look at the Giza
Plateau is a rainbow spectrum
of light and sound.
Now, it does not fill the
other five missing intervals,
but as you'll see in
subsequent episodes,
we find those missing
intervals, along with the notes
of a 24-note scale that
the egyptians used,
in all of the slope
angles, in Egypt.
We finally can understand
the musical relationship
of the three pyramids
on the Giza Plateau
and the musical
keys of Metatron.
If we take the separation of the
scale as the square root of 8,
and then cut that in half.
The square root of 2, we have
the diminished fifth chord.
This is the chord in
music, this is the interval
that we listen to when
we're watching movies,
and usually the villain
enters the room.
It's diminished fifth
and augmented fourths
that give us the sound when
Darth Vader enters in Star Wars.
Recent studies have been shown
that dogs recognize Darth Vader
when he walks in the room.
Is it really that they recognize
the black outfit of Darth Vader?
Or possibly, is it
that they recognize
the sound of the
diminished fifth
and augmented fourth in that
famous chorus of [HUMMING]?
As we think about
this, we could start
to derive that our
entire scale in music
starts with that separation
at the midpoint of the scale.
From there, the diminished
fifth and augmented fourth,
both being 1.4142, can be
multiplied against the unison
value that is chosen.
And in this case we're
going to use 432 hertz,
the pythagorean note A.
When we multiply 432 times
the square root of 2,
it comes out to 610.9.
In hertz, that then
also converts into feet.
The slope of the great pyramid
of Giza is 610.9 feet exactly.
As we think this
through further,
we could start to think
as we go beyond this,
that we go to the next note from
the center point of the scale
to the perfect fifth
and the perfect fourth,
the perfect fourth
being derived as 4/3.
4/3 creating the angle
of 53.13 degrees.
Its inverted
pairing becomes 6/4,
which is reduced down to 3/2,
because they share the common
denominator of two.
Both of these musical intervals
will share the same slope
angle of 53.13 degrees.
The next musical notes
that extend from this
become the major third
and the minor sixth.
Now, we use the
term major and minor
really as synonymous
with polarity.
A major interval is
a positive polarity.
You could switch it.
It doesn't really matter.
It's like saying that
masculine is positive
and feminine is negative
or feminine is positive
and masculine is negative.
It's just an opposite
condition of each other,
adhering to the
hermetic principle
of polarity and gender.
In each case of
musical interval,
as we extend from the
center of a scale,
the numbers must add to 9.
So a diminished fifth will add
to an augmented fourth to equal
9.
A perfect fifth will add
to the perfect fourth,
and that will also equal 9.
The perfect fourth
and the perfect fifth
have this relationship
like the diminished fifth
and the augmented
fourth, that they do not
have a shift in polarity.
When we get to the major
third and the minor sixth,
we have this polarity
shift happening.
Then the next
extended from there
would be the minor third
and the major sixth,
again adding to 9 always.
Then the next notes
from there would
be the major second
and the minor seventh,
and beyond that would
be the minor second
and the major seventh.
Each having very specific
numerical relationships
of intervals of ratio of
height over one half base.
The great pyramid
embodies 2/1pi.
Khafre embodies 4/3 and 3/2, and
Menkaure embodies and embeds 5/4
and 8/5.
Because the great pyramid
is also 2/1 and its inverted
relationship becomes 2pi/2,
we then find the unison
and the octave notes.
So out of the 13 musical
intervals that exist within
a scale, in a 11-note
Western based scale,
we find that eight of the
precise musical intervals,
and their resulting slope angles
are identical to that that is
found on the Giza Plateau with
Khufu, Khafre and Menkaure.
All three pyramids
representing different aspects
of Metatron's cube, the
musical keys of Metatron.
What we find is that the entire
spectrum of sound and light
can be represented with the
pyramids that are from Saqqara,
all the way north
to another place
that we'll be
introducing to you later,
called Abu Rawash,
eight kilometers north
of the Giza Plateau.
As we look at this
musical relationship,
we can't help but wonder what
is this relationship deriving
from a musical
expression perspective?
And what we find is that it's an
A major chord that sounds just
like this [HUMMING]
Through the great pyramid,
we go on a hero's journey
through the separation of the
square root of 2, all the way
back up to doubling the octave
and expanding our perception
and experience.
The Giza Plateau represents
the musical keys of Metatron.
Another important aspect of
this is emotional states.
I was recently asked by a
cognitive neuroscientist
by the name of Donald Hoffman
to relate to him a way
to derive mathematical
equation for human emotion.
And I thought, well, that's
not a very easy task.
My mind was drawn to the notion
that music has the ability
to entrain certain
emotional states in each
and every one of us.
And when we watch film,
this is used so adeptly
by movie makers, filmographers.
Low frequency sounds can
elicit fear and anxiety.
Higher frequency sounds can
be used in like fashion,
but in the opposite sense.
And I was then drawn
to think about research
that had been conducted
on the relationship
between musical interval
and emotional states.
What I found is that each
of the musical intervals
are accompanied by a
different emotional state.
Those emotional states
can be derived as follows.
The diminished fifth
elicits fear, instability.
The perfect fourth
and the perfect fifth
brings in this higher
degree of stability.
Bringing those notes
clear into view,
loyalty comes with
the perfect fourth.
And the major third
is accompanied
by a feeling of
romantic or divine love
and its inverted
pairing, the minor sixth,
is accompanied by heartbreak,
by viewers and listeners alike.
Each of the different
musical intervals
entrains a different
emotional state
whose inverted pairing elicits
the opposite emotional state.
So when we look at
the Giza Plateau
and we look at Menkaure pyramid,
the smallest of the three
pyramids, in one viewpoint, we
could see it as romantic love,
and looking at it from its
height over its one half base,
that is what we would perceive.
But if we looked at it
instead from the full base
over the height, then we would
experience heartbreak instead.
This raises
fundamental questions
about our experience
in this universe.
A fundamental question is,
in the experience of love,
is simultaneously the
seed of heartbreak?
Is this not true with all
experiences that we have?
We've all experienced moments
where we look back on our lives
and we say, oh,
that was the worst
thing that ever happened to me.
But with the benefit
of time, somehow
the polarity of
that experience can
flip to become the best thing
that ever happened to me.
As we analyze our
experience and start
to review the
patterns of our lives,
then we start to recognize
these synchronicities that
connect dots for us so that
we can remember who we are
and why we are here.
That all of it is interconnected
in a sublime symphony
of music and geometry.
The notes of the major
third are the same notes
of the minor sixth.
They're just played
in differing orders,
and the second note is
played in the higher octave.
And yet, our emotional
condition, from researchers,
shows that we have an
entirely different experience
by listening to the same notes
played in backwards order.
The experience of
love, romantic love,
therefore, will
always have the seed
of some degree of heartbreak.
The feeling of stability
in the perfect fifth
will always have a
relationship to loyalty
because there is
no polarity flip.
The minor second and the major
second relationships of winning
will always be accompanied by
the feeling of loss and despair.
These relationships
are part of the matrix
of mind and our
universal experience
here that is impacted by
our own conditioning bias,
whether we can see it or not.
It points also to the notion
that maybe what we consider
to be random is not
really random at all,
and simply beyond our awareness.
If I were an omnipotent,
omniscient, omnipresent being,
and I wanted to play a game
where I could learn more wisdom,
expand my awareness
and consciousness,
would it make sense
for me to make a game
where I had access to all
my powers and faculties?
Or does it make
more sense for me
to limit access to those
powers and faculties
and make the game itself be
the realization and refinding
of those powers and faculties?
I would suggest to you
that it is the latter.
We are here to find ourselves,
find our own god realization,
and remember that we are all
divisions of the number 1.
And in addition, there
is no separation.
What we perceive outside of us
is not really separate from us
at all.
It's just a
reflection of what is
emanating from the inside
of us and projecting
to the outside world.
[THEME MUSIC]